---
title: "Unlocking Defensive Mastery: Introducing the Expected Disruption (xD) Model in Football Analytics"
date: 2024-12-12
featured_image: /assets/images/cannavaro_r9_maldini.jpg
excerpt: "<em>blah blah</em>"
subtitle: "Quantifying the unseen impact of defensive actions on the pitch"
---

## Quantifying the unseen impact of defensive actions on the pitch

### **Why Defense Deserves More Credit?**

In the beautiful game of soccer, attacking brilliance often steals the spotlight. Goals win matches, and the metrics to measure offensive prowess are plentiful — **Expected Goals (xG)**, **Expected Assists (xA)**, and **Expected Threat (xT)**, to name a few. But what about the art of defense? How do we quantify the subtle, game-changing moments when a defender intercepts a pass, blocks a shot, or disrupts the flow of an attack?

### **The Need for a New Defensive Metric**

Traditional defensive statistics like tackles and interceptions provide raw counts but fail to capture the contextual value of these actions. A tackle in the opponent’s half isn’t equal to a last-ditch block inside the penalty area. Existing defensive metrics often lack the nuance required to assess a player’s true impact, treating all actions equally and ignoring the varying degrees of threat posed by different attacking moves.

To bridge this gap, I propose the **Expected Disruption (xD)** model — a framework designed to quantify the impact of defensive actions on preventing scoring opportunities. Just as the [xT model](https://karun.in/blog/expected-threat.html) (by Karun Singh) revolutionized our understanding of buildup play by assigning value to each offensive action, the xD model aims to provide a similar advancement for defensive analysis.

**Key Questions:**
•	How can we measure the effectiveness of a defender’s actions in terms of the threat they prevent?
•	Can we assign a quantifiable value to defensive disruptions based on their location?


<iframe 
  src="{{ '/assets/xD_heatmap_interactive_v2.html' | relative_url }}"
  width="1000"
  height="500"
  scrolling="no"
  style="border:none; overflow:hidden;">
</iframe>



Blah Blah

<iframe 
  src="{{ '/assets/Leicester_City_percentile_map.html' | relative_url }}"
  width="1000"
  height="500"
  scrolling="no"
  style="border:none; overflow:hidden;">
</iframe>
